cancer is very preventable it's just
that we're doing everything we possibly
can to to induce it to manage cancer
without toxicity is to simultaneously
restrict the two fuels that are needed
to drive this disregulated growth while
transitioning the whole body off to a
fuel that the tumor cells can't use
we've always heard cancer is genetic but
Dr Thomas sea freed a scientist with 30
plus years of research thinks we've got
it all wrong he argues that common foods
even some considered healthy may be
providing the precise nutrients that
fuel Cancer's growth once the field
comes to realize this is a mitochondrial
metabolic disease of energy metabolism
we will drop the death rate by more than
50% in 5 years no question about it the
problem is you're up against massive
institutional systems when the science
comes you can't suppress the truth it's
going to come out the evidence the
scientific evidence is there Dr SE freed
argues that cancer is primarily a
metabolic disease not a genetic one this
might sound like a small distinction but
it has huge implications for how we
understand and treat
cancer I get calls from people geez I
thought that guy would have been a goner
he's still alive he's doing well still
alive what's going on with that this
woman here she had breast cancer to the
brain and many many other organs they
said she had one month one month to live
she it was nothing working then they put
her on this metabolic supported low
doses of chemo very low doses anyway
here she is celebrating her life with
her husband and ha wife and I'm going to
show you the evidence every day in the
United States about 1,700 people die
from cancer that's one person every
minute in a half while we're talking
here we going to have 140 people dead
it's getting worse and worse yet
researchers have uncovered evidence that
some cancer rates are historically much
lower in some populations so is cancer
really natural consider this identical
twins start life with the same genes yet
studies show concordance rates for many
diseases between identical twins are
often less than 100% % for example the
concordance rate for breast cancer is
only 20% between identical twins if
genes were Destiny this number should be
much closer to
100% so yes diet and exercise in the
right Foods in the right context could
take the risk of a herited mutation that
you'd say 50% chance of getting a a
cancer with that mutation you could
reduce that down massively what the
nature is telling us is that this is a
disorder driven by mitochondrial
dysfunction not by mutations in the
nucleus cancer cells have a peculiar
appetite unlike normal cells which can
use various energy sources cancer cells
are picky eaters at the top of Cancer's
menu are two key nutrients glucose and
glutamine glucose a type of sugar is the
primary energy source for most cells in
our body but cancer cells consume
glucose at a much higher rate than
normal cells using it to fuel their
rapid growth and division
this high demand for glucose is why many
tumors show up brightly on pet scans
which use a radioactive form of glucose
to identify areas of high metabolic
activity glutamine and amino acid is the
second favorite food of cancer cells
glutamine yeah it plays a crucial role
in cellular metabolism particularly in
rapidly dividing cells like those found
in tumors now if you look at a tumor
every cell in that tumor has a different
constellation of genetic mutations but
one thing is common to all of those
cells they are fermenting what do they
ferment glucose and glutamine the key to
manage cancer is to take away the
fermentation fuels okay I mean not
complicated and you're going to come to
realize that by limiting the
availability of these nutrients we might
be able to slow down cancer growth if
cancer is primarily a metabolic disease
it means that what we eat and how we
live could have a much bigger impact on
cancer development than we previously
thought you don't have to make a billion
dollars on that all you have to know is
that all those folks are living longer
because you understood the
science Dr Thomas seed States cancer is
the only disease I know where you're
poisoning and irradiating people to make
them healthy it makes absolutely no
sense he believes these treatments might
actually encourage new tumor growth in
some cases surviving cancer cells might
become even more aggressive adapting to
thrive in harsh condition conditions
despite these concerns most oncologists
still believe in the value of
chemotherapy and radiation but SE freed
counters with some sobering statistics
he notes that 5year survival rates for
aggressive cancers like gleo blastoma
remain low often below 10% look at this
survival curve that looks like that
highly replicable and there hasn't been
any Improvement in 100 years he argues
that if our current approach was truly
effective we should be seeing better
better long-term outcomes we don't have
to throw out immunotherapies radiation
we don't have to throw out toxic poisons
we just have to know better how to use
it why are they going out of control
because as long as you have those
fermentable fuels they will continue to
grow they're very hard to kill he
suggest that by targeting Cancer's
unique metabolism we might be able to
starve cancer cells without harming
healthy ones this approach could
potentially be more effective and less
toxic than traditional treatments in
some cases the biggest problem is no
business model to support this which is
the singular greatest inhibitor of
moving this forward it's not the patient
that should be benefited it's how to
make revenue from
this you've likely heard that Sugar
feeds cancer but according to Dr seed's
research it's not just about avoiding
obvious unhealthy choices even some
foods we consider healthy might be
problematic according to this scientist
many conventional Health Foods
particularly those high in carbohydrates
can promote cancer cell metabolism these
foods provide glucose which fuels tumor
growth refined carbohydrates like white
bread pastries and sugary snacks can
Spike blood sugar levels and potentially
accelerate cancer growth this means that
the whole wheat toast you have for
breakfast or the fruit smoothie you
drink as a healthy snack might actually
be feeding cancer cells if you have a
tumor it will feed on the sugar but
sugar itself is not a carcinogen glucose
is a powerful addictive fuel but we
evolved not to have very much glucose in
our diets insulin also plays a crucial
role in cancer progression it promotes
glucose uptake and utilization in cancer
cells enhancing their growth and
survival foods that cause insulin spikes
like sugary snacks or high glycemic
carbohydrates might indirectly support
cancer growth by increasing insulin
levels in the body these are the very
foods that make up a big portion of many
people's diets the big Food Industries
make you sick the pharmaceutical
companies will give you drugs and
therapies to try to make you
healthy yeah what an industry right A
lot of people aren't aware of that so
you put all this together and you have a
problem almost everything that we eat
contains highly processed carbs so
people are going to say well I'm going
to go starve the death everything in my
neighborhood is this and the answer is
unfortunately yes um this is the the
problem but by altering what we eat we
might be able to create an environment
in our bodies that's hostile to cancer
growth which is what Dr sefre tries to
prove you know 50,000 years ago there
was no industrial harvesting of foods
but I think that uh organically grown
vegetables if one could do that you know
with natural fertilizers I think those
would be very very healthy along with
any other free range meat products or
things like this one promising dietary
approach is the ketogenic diet this high
fat low carbohydrate diet restricts the
very nutrients that cancer cells thrive
on the basic idea is to replace carbs
with healthy fats forcing the body to
burn fat for fuel instead of glucose
this metabolic state known as ketosis is
where the diet gets its name once the
patient is in therapeutic ketosis then
you can lower blood sugars down to very
very extremely low levels I mean z .5 m
9 milligram per decaler but the brain
and the rest of the cells are protected
because they can burn fatty acids and
ketones and going back to fermentation
fatty acids and Ketone bodies are
non-fermentable so they become non-
fuels for the tumor cell when we enter
ketosis our body starts producing
ketones from fat these ketones become
the primary fuel source for most of our
cells but cancer cells struggle in this
new environment without their preferred
fuel glucose many cancer cells can't
grow or survive
restricted ketogenic diets raise Ketone
levels because it's the glucose that's
driving the disregulated growth and now
we're going to give them fatty acids and
ketones to choke on right and and not
only that it'll make the rest of your
cells healthy at a cellular level
ketosis triggers some fascinating
changes it reduces inflammation
throughout the body which is known to
play a role in cancer development it
also lowers insulin levels which can
slow down cancer cell growth some
research even suggests that ketones
themselves might have anti-cancer
properties ketones are a super fuel for
mitochondria they reduce reactive oxygen
species the damaging byproducts of
respiration so ketones can significantly
reduce damage to mitochondria allowing
that organel to function in a highly
precise manner for long periods of time
Dr sea Freed's research has found that
combining a calorie restricted ketogenic
diet with glutamine targeting can have
therapeutic benefits in late stage
experimental gast
an aggressive form of brain cancer other
Studies have shown potential benefits
for various types of cancer including
pancreatic prostate and colon cancers
most scientists say it is not fully
scientifically validated yet and some
cancer cells have been shown to adapt to
other fuel
sources however in one case study a
woman successfully treated her dog's
Mass cell tumor using a ketogenic diet
and calorie restriction the tumor shrank
significantly demonstrating the
potential of this approach even in
non-human subjects there are also human
studies showing similar results we're in
a very early stage of this we haven't
really worked it out into a an effective
standard yet it will come to help
patients maintain the right balance Dr
cfre developed the glucose Ketone Index
this tool helps monitor the balance of
glucose and ketones in the blood
ensuring patients maintain a metabolic
State unfavorable for cancer growth this
is the way to let people know whether or
not they're in ketosis so some people
say oh yeah I I eat a ketogenic diet I
said what's your gki why I never
measured well how do you know you're in
ketosis you have to have a blood
measurement to know where you are if
diet can have such a powerful effect on
cancer growth why isn't it a bigger part
of standard Cancer
Care the medical community is deeply
invested in the genetic model of cancer
and traditional treatments like
chemotherapy and radiation Dr CED notes
that practitioners who deviate from
these conventional treatments may even
risk losing their medical licenses
moreover the current medical
establishment is resistant to change
there's a lot of money and
infrastructure built around traditional
Cancer Treatments shifting to a dietary
approach would require a fundamental
rethinking of how we approach Cancer
Care yet the potential benefits are too
significant to ignore it's just a matter
of time I don't know how long it's going
to take but I ain't going anywhere
I'm continuing to do this I'm going to
get better and better results as we
continue to explore Dr SE Freed's work
we'll look at another powerful tool in
the fight against cancer fasting this
ancient practice has modern applications
that might surprise you how does going
without food impact cancer cell growth
let's find
out while it might seem counterintuitive
to deprive the body of nutrients when
fighting a disease
the biological effects of fasting are
surprisingly powerful fasting comes in
various forms intermittent fasting
restricts eating to certain hours of the
day or days of the week prolonged
fasting involves going without food for
several days actually there are some
reports now that show water only
therapeutic fasting can significantly
reduce some of the toxic effects of
chemotherapy when we fast our bodies
undergo significant metabolic changes
blood sugar levels drop forcing our
cells to switch from using glucose as
their primary fuel to burning fat and
producing ketones it creates conditions
that limit cancer cells ability to adapt
survive and grow Dr SE freed notes that
a water only fast of 3 5 days can
rapidly induce ketosis potentially
starving cancer cells of their preferred
fuels the scientist argues that by
depriving the body of glucose and other
nutrients fasting forces cells into a
state of stress
normal cells can adapt to this stress
but cancer cells often can't he says
that this metabolic pressure can slow
cancer cell growth make them more
vulnerable to treatments and in some
cases trigger cell death